	    18th International Obfuscated C Code Contest Rules

Copyright (C) 2005 Leonid A. Broukhis, Simon Cooper, Landon Curt Noll and
Peter Seebach.

All Rights Reserved.  Permission for personal, education or non-profit use is
granted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its entirety
and remains unaltered.  All other uses must receive prior permission in
writing from the contest judges.

    Obfuscate:  tr.v.  -cated, -cating, -cates.  1. a.  To render obscure.
		b.  To darken.  2. To confuse:  his emotions obfuscated his
		judgment.  [LLat. obfuscare, to darken : ob(intensive) +
		Lat. fuscare, to darken < fuscus, dark.] -obfuscation n.
		obfuscatory adj.


GOALS OF THE CONTEST:

    * To write the most Obscure/Obfuscated C program under the rules below.
    * To show the importance of programming style, in an ironic way.
    * To stress C compilers with unusual code.
    * To illustrate some of the subtleties of the C language.
    * To provide a safe forum for poor C code.  :-)

The 18th IOCCC contest window is:

|		21-Mar-2005 00:00 UTC to 22-May-2005 23:59:59 UTC

RULES:

    To help us with the volume of entries, we ask that you follow these rules:

    1) Your entry must be a complete program.

    2) The size of your program source must be <= 4096 bytes in length.
       The number of characters excluding whitespace (tab, space,
       newline, formfeed, return), and excluding any ; { or } immediately
       followed by whitespace or end of file, must be <= 2048.

    3) Submissions should be performed using the instructions outlined at,

|      http://www.ioccc.org/2005/submit

    4) If your entry is selected as a winner, it will be modified as follows:

	   Your 'build' instructions will be incorporated into a
           makefile.  If your build instructions *is* a makefile then
           it should be portable and usable from within a master
           makefile.

	   Your program source will be renamed using an identifier of
           our choice (usually your family name or anonymous) followed
           by an optional digit, followed by '.c'

	   Your entry will be compiled into a file with the above name
           minus the '.c'.

       If your entry requires that a build file exist, state so in
       your entry's remark section.  The makefile will be arranged to
       execute a build shell script containing the 'build'
       information.  The name of this build shell script will be your
       entry's title, possibly followed by a digit, followed by '.sh'.

       If needed, your entry's remarks should indicate how your entry
       must be changed in order to deal with the new filenames.

    5) The build file, the source and the resulting executable should be
       treated as read-only files.  If your entry needs to modify these files,
       it should make and modify a copy of the appropriate file.  If this
       occurs, state so in your entry's remarks.

    6) Your program source must be able to be compiled cleanly by an ANSI C
       compiler, or if there are any compile errors, they must be documented
       in the "remarks" section of your submission.

    7) The program must be of original work.  All submitted programs are
       are thereby put in the public domain.  All explicitly copyrighted
       programs will be rejected.

|   8) Entries must be received prior to 22-May-2005 23:59:59 UTC.

       An EMail a confirmation of submission will be sent to the sender
       before the close of the contest.

    9) Each person may submit up to 8 entries per contest year.  Each entry
       must be submitted separately.

   10) Entries requiring human interaction to be built are not permitted.

   11) Programs that require special privileges (setuid, setgid, super-user,
|       special owner or group) are highly discouraged.

   12) Legal abuse of the rules is somewhat encouraged.  An entry that, in
       the opinion of the judges, violates the rules will be disqualified.
       Entries that attempt to abuse the rules must try to justify why
       their rule abuse is legal in the submitted "remarks".

   13) Your source may not contain unescaped octets with the high bit set.
       I.e., your source may not contain octet values between 128 and 255.

   14) Any program that fails to compile because of lines with trailing
       control-M's (\r or \015) will be rejected.

   15) When you submit your entry you must have a valid email address
       that can both send and receive email.  The online submission
       method is a two phase process that requires the use of an
       approval code. This code will be emailed to you as part of
       phase 1.

       Entries submitted without a working or valid email address will
       be disqualified.

       The judges are not responsible for delays in email, please plan
       enough time for one automated exchange of email as part of your
       submission.

   16) You are STRONGLY encouraged to submit an original entry.  
       Submissions that are similar to previous entries are discouraged.

|  17) The total size of your submission: the sum of the size of the program,
|      hints, comments, build and info files MUST be less than one megabyte
|      in size.

FOR MORE INFORMATION:

    The judging will be done by Leonid A. Broukhis, Simon Cooper, Landon
    Curt Noll and Peter Seebach.  Please send questions or comments
    about the contest, to:

|	    q.2005@ioccc.org	   (for questions only!)

|   You must include the words ``ioccc 2005 question'' in the subject of
    your EMail message when sending EMail to the judges.

    The rules and the guidelines may (and often do) change from year to
    year.  You should be sure you have the current rules and guidelines
    prior to submitting entries.  To obtain them, visit the IOCCC web page:

	http://www.ioccc.org

    It has rules, guidelines and winners of previous contests (1984 to date).

    Details of how to submit your entry are located at,

|	http://www.ioccc.org/2005/submit

Leonid A. Broukhis
Simon Cooper
chongo (Landon Curt Noll) /\cc/\
Peter Seebach

